>> Ben Hong: The conscious of this is,
as I mentioned before, which is a factory.
So again, if you think of singleton,
it's like they're unique, they're single.
Factory, think your large
manufacturing plant, right?
They're like churning stuff out.
That's what the functions do,
they churn out a new set of state that
will be used upon every instantiation.
So in other words, factories are not
great when you want to share state,
because they're all going to be unique,
they're going to be separate states.
If that's what you want, that's great.
But in the event you're trying to share
it, that's where the problem lies.
So has everyone here used some
sort of state management before?
Probably, yeah, looks like it.
And so for those who are new to this
pattern, the datastore pattern basically
assumes that you have a singleton
that you're sharing at the top.
So actually, let me go to.
I guess I'll have to use weeks in
this one and we'll flip the task and
usually I use tasks and then do weeks.
But since this is already set up, the idea
here is you have something that's shared
like the singleton here, and then you
have functions that then modify it.
So in other words, if we go ahead and
say I think we had like a fetch.
Let's see, this is a response fetch.
Gosh, let's see, weak form model.
Maybe this will be fine.
This is a post.
Nope, I don't want to put.
Nope, fetch, here you go, weeks.
Okay, good enough.
And so here for example.
This fetchweeks function.
Let's take the whole thing.
Okay, so
inside of here we now have this method.
I generally like to label my things
function just to kind of separate
them from the variables.
Something I like to do.
So we have this async function
function for fetching the weeks.
For now we are.
I guess we need these other pieces.
But one moment, we need to then
grab those pieces of state here.
So we'll grab those like as such and
we'll export them as well.
And then so these are your actions
because they impact state.
So they're there.
I need the API base URL.
What is that?
There it is.
Okay, and then we drop that.
Let's say that's a constant.
So, let's just throw that at the top and
then that's being shared, great.
And then fetch Weeks.
Fetch.
Yep, this is good.
That looks like no errors.
Okay, perfect.
And so, usually what happens then is,
so you have this action for being able
to fetchweeks and so you can Imagine here,
okay, this is the factory one.
If we have a getter say number
of weeks then you would
say export const number of
weeks equals computed and
then we go ahead and
return weeks value length.
And so here we see we're kind of starting
to shape up into store a little bit.
And so,
then the datastore model then basically
purports that from what you would do
here is because right now everything
is just kind of being shared together.
You wanna be able to instantiate
things is kind of the idea.
So, you would actually export
a function called like use.
In this case weakStore.
And what it do is again,
you keep your singleton out here,
but inside of this you
basically share this stuff.
So your actions and your getters as such.
So, return, what did I say?
Weeks, Number of weeks.
Yep, numberOfWeeks.
And then I said fetchweeks.
Yep, and so
this would technically be your getters,
this is your actions and
then what you could do.
And this is another technique.
There is a helper function from
view that's called read only.
And the read only is helpful because when
you expose your refs directly there is
a chance that a developer
is going to get sloppy and
they're going to try to
mute mutate something.
So in this case rather than
having them hit this directly,
what you would do is you would actually
prevent this from being exported so
that they can't directly
impact your source of truth.
And then you would basically say inside
of here weeks is read only weeks.
And then I think it was like is loading.
I think what were the other two week is
loading weak error, weakIs Loading,
readonly, slow only read weakError,
readonly (weakError).
Okay, and then comma.
And how would this work?
Well, now that we have this, let's see,
there are probably some
things breaking now.
So let's find out what's breaking.
Do do do.
Yep.
So has no idea what this weeks is.
So, we can do then as we say,
okay, we're gonna import
use what I call weekStore
from composable use week and
then I will go ahead and
initialize it, and I'll say,
const weekStore = useWeekStore.
And then you'll see here there's a bunch
of stuff basically ready for us to access.
And so,
from here weekStore.weeks now works,
WeekStore.weeks and
up weekStore.fetchweeks.
I think that's everything.
Okay.
And then if I look at the taskform
model now, I killed the server.
Okay, Failed with one error.
What did I do wrong?
I know I did wrong.
You can put multiple exports
inside of an export.
So, meaning use week here.
I left the keyword in there,
unfortunately.
So there you go.
That should do it.
And then.
Yes.
Back here.
Two tasks.
It's yelling at me.
Why is it yelling?
Use week does not find
an export name weeks.
So that means somewhere
else it's using it, right?
Import weeks, yeah, okay.
Yep, you're totally right.
Okay, that's.
That's the problem.
Okay, let's.
Okay, we're gonna.
We're gonna be.
We're gonna be diligent about this.
UseWeekStore, you're right.
And then although this is already.
I see repetition there for sure.
Fetch weeks is definitely
being repeated here.
Weekstore.weeks.
WeekStore, weekStore.
Although I did not initialize it yet.
So this is why it's still erroring out.
So we can go ahead.
Don't need this anymore.
Yep.
Const weekStore = useWeakStore.
All right, now this should be healthier.
Good call out.
Thank you for that.
Weeks.
Yep.
Great.
And that is.
That's everything.
Okay.
All right, I have to do it for the rest.
Okay, I can do that during the exercise.
But what I do wanted to.
Okay, does this part.
So to exactly your point,
there is kind of a factory going on
in the sense that you're instantiating
the store that can then fetch
you the getters,
the actions that are associated with it.
But at the end of the day,
what is ultimately being shared,
despite it being a factory pattern,
because you're using a function here,
is that you have this shared state at
this top that remains a shared singleton.
Does that make sense?
Okay, so in other words,
these two are not mutually exclusive.
This is one example of how you can
combine them in such a way that allows
you to then leverage
the advantages of both.
Now granted,
the read only thing here is like.
This is like call it a convention of
some people just really like having read
only values in their state stores.
Honestly, typically I haven't really
had an issue just like having the state
directly accessible on my own.
But to each their own.
And sometimes you need more guardrails for
different teams.
So I wanted to make sure you
knew about the use only pattern.
Sorry, the read only pattern so
that it was not be,
it would not throw you off so much.
So basically what you'll notice
is let me show you the error and
why we're going to do a little
bit of a hybrid approach to this.
You'll see here that weeks.value
is being set to fetchweeks, right,
there's clearly some logic here
that's trying to update set value.
If we look at our useweek
composable right now,
really the only action we
have is to fetch a week.
We don't actually have an update
weeks functionality yet
in terms of if someone's just trying
to check chugged some data in.
And so again, we could obviously
architect that and make that very clean.
But again, I want to make
use of everyone's time here.
I'm just going to export this back out and
then that should.
And so to be very clear for the record,
that defeats the purpose of
the read only in the factory, but
it should solve the problem otherwise.
So this way I don't need to do that and
just have weeks exported directly.
And that actually should.
Yeah.
Reset everything.
Yep.